# Team Pixel Portraits
[Our portrait technique was featured in the 2018 Deep Space competition DLC ("Making 8Bit Art")!](http://web.archive.org/web/20180119151307/https://www.firstinspires.org/2018-frc-teaser)

On the [team page](http://1418.team/team) of our website, members of the team have flat pixel portraits of themselves above their bios. Making these is much easier than it may look on the surface, but the process may be difficult to see at first, so below is a guide.

GIMP, a free & open source photo editor, is used in this guide. You can do it in any capable editor, but GIMP is recommended. You can download it [here](http://www.gimp.org/downloads/).

1. Find a good photo of the member. If you can, just ask the member for a photo of themselves. It's best if this photo has the member in primary view. Just use your best judgement to find the best photo you can. Good places to find photos are the [team Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/robotics1418/) and individual member pages on various social media. Note that high resolution and facial expression of the original photo are mostly irrelevant as they'll be undetectable in the final product.
2. Crop the photo down to a perfect square with only the person's head and shoulders in the frame. Leave a reasonable amount of margin above the person's head. (To crop a perfect square, use the rectangle select tool after enabling Fixed 1:1 aspect ratio through the Tool Options pane -- by default in the bottom left of the screen.)
3. Swith to the lasso select tool. Turn off antialiasing in tool options and select the person's head and shoulders. Cut this area with `Cmd+X` (or `CTRL+X` on Windows) and delete the layer that still contains the background. Then, paste the member's head and shoulders which you cut/copied earlier in this step back onto the image.
4. If necessary, reposition the pasted area so that it touches the bottom of the frame appropriately.
5. Create a new layer and use the paint bucket tool to fill it in with `#333333`.
6. Scale the image down to 64x64 pixels, with _Interpolation: None_. Using interpolation will make your task harder later on since the image will be blurry and will need to be cleaned much more.  
7. Using the pencil tool at size 1 (or 3 for quicker filling), draw over the member's shirt or other clothing using the following colors: `#cf2e2e` for light portions, `#b52828` for middle brightness, and `#942121` for the most shadowed areas. The paint bucket tool can help with this task. When you're done, it should look like a red, somewhat flattened version of whatever they were wearing before.
8. Perform the same process as above on the person's hair and face (draw over all facial features), but instead of the above red colors, use colors that fit their hair & skin colors the closest. Use around two or three colors for their hair and three to four for their skin, taking care to make it apparent where their chin ends and neck begins. Make shadows very easy to distinguish.
9. Remove semitransparent pixels around the edges of the person's body by selecting them and cutting them, or drawing over them in the background color. There shouldn't be many if you did the earlier steps correctly, but there's usually a couple.
10. Scale the image to 512x512 (any large base 2 size works, but 512x is generally the best) with _Interpolation: None_. If you don't do this, the photo will appear blurry.
11. Export the file as a PNG image. On our website, we use the name format first-last.png.
12. Use a tool like [ImageOptim](https://imageoptim.com) to compress the image. Such tools will strip useless data from the image; reducing the portrait image's size by up to 75% while not visibly detracting from the image's appearance. This process helps our website load significantly faster, especially the team page.
